.TH LIVESCROLL-RSS 1 "2025-01-29" "livescroll-rss 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
livescroll-rss \- live-updating RSS feed reader for the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B livescroll-rss
.RI [ FEED_URL ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B livescroll-rss
polls an RSS feed and displays a live-updating, reverse-chronological
list of items in a terminal user interface.
.PP
A background thread fetches the feed every 60 seconds.  New items are
de-duplicated by GUID (or link) and merged into a sorted list with the
newest items at the top.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I FEED_URL
URL of an RSS\ 2.0 feed to poll.
If omitted, defaults to the BBC News feed
.RI ( https://feeds.bbci.co.uk/news/rss.xml ).
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.TP
.BR q ", " Esc
Quit the application.
.TP
.BR \(ua " / " k
Scroll the selection up by one item.
.TP
.BR \(da " / " j
Scroll the selection down by one item.
.TP
.BR Home " / " g
Jump to the first (newest) item.
.TP
.BR End " / " G
Jump to the last (oldest) item.
.SH DISPLAY
The main area shows a scrollable list of feed items.  Each row contains:
.PP
.RS
.I DATE\  TIME\  \  TITLE\  \  [SOURCE]
.RE
.PP
The bottom line shows:
.IP \(bu 2
The last poll status (e.g. "Fetched 42 items" or an error message)
.IP \(bu
The total number of items
.IP \(bu
A keybinding reminder
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit (user pressed
.B q
or
.BR Esc ).
.TP
.B >0
An error occurred during startup (e.g. terminal setup failure).
.SH EXAMPLES
Watch BBC News (default feed):
.PP
.RS
.B livescroll-rss
.RE
.PP
Watch Hacker News front page:
.PP
.RS
.B livescroll-rss https://hnrss.org/frontpage
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B livescroll-rss
respects the standard terminal environment.  It requires a terminal that
supports ANSI escape sequences and alternate screen mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rss2email (1),
.BR newsboat (1)
.SH AUTHORS
See the project repository for the full list of contributors.
